                  How to use CIAOServerResources.xsd

Assuming we store two CIAO:ServerResources documents in two XML files
called "RTLinuxServerConfig.xml" and "RTwIN32ServerConfig.xml"
respectively.  Two things need to happen in order to use the
PolicySet's defined in these files.  First, we need to tell the DnC
tools what are all the CIAOServerResources files a DeploymentPlan
needs.  This can easily be done by enumerating all these file in the
<infoProperty> element under the <DeploymentPlan>. For example, the
following XML document snippet shows a DeploymentPlan will reference
to two aforementioned CIAO:ServerResources files.  The property name
"CIAOServerResourceRef" is a CIAO-specific extension that signifies
this need.  The values of these properties simply specify the
filenames.


   <infoProperty>
     <name>CIAOServerResourceRef</name>
     <value>
        <type>
          <kind>tk_string</kind>
        </type>
        <value>
         <string>RTLinuxServerConfig.xml</string>
        </value>
     </value>

     <name>CIAOServerResourceRef</name>
     <value>
        <type>
          <kind>tk_string</kind>
        </type>
        <value>
          <string>RTWin32ServerConfig.xml</string>
        </value>
     </value>
   </infoProperty>

Second, we can now use the policy sets defined in these files by
associating a policy set with the entity the policy set will be
applied.  Currently, only associations with component instances are
supported.  A component instance in deployment plan can specify the
policy set it wishes to be instantiated with.  A PolicySet is
referenced by its name and the CIAO:ServerResources name.

   <deploymentplan>
     ....
     <instance ...>

     
       <deployedResource>
         <resourceUsage>InstanceUsesResource</resourceUsage>
         <requirementName>CIAO:ServerResources</requirementName>
         <resourceName>here_we_insert_the_name_defined_in_CIAO:ServerResources</resourcename>
         <property>
           <name>CIAO:PolicySetName</name>
           <value>
             <type>tk_string</type>
             <value>
               <string>here_we_insert_the_PolicySet_name_defined_in_the_ServerResources</string>
             </value>
           </value>
         </property>
       </deployedResource>

     </instance>
   </deploymentplan>
  
If only the name of the CIAO:ServerResources is specified, we are
using it as a collocation constraint.  In this case, the
<deployedResource> will contain no <property> sub-element.  Component
instances with different <resourceName> values will be deployed to the
same target node with different ServerResources names.  DAnCE should
create two differnet NodeApplication on the same node.

Likewise, specifying different CIAO:PolicySet IDs will force component
instances to be deployed into different containers (if they have the
same target node and ServerResource ID.)

