.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii TAO_CosEvent_Service.1
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.TH TAO_CosEvent_Service 1 "April 1999" "CORBA Tools"
.SH NAME
TAO_CosEvent_Service \- The TAO COS compliant Event Service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B TAO_CosEvent_Service
.B [
.I OPTIONS
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B TAO_CosEvent_Service
is a COS compilant Event Service.  The service is registered with the naming
service with the name "CosEventService." It exposes the EventChannel interface
which can be used by suppliers and consumers to send and receive events.

TAO_Naming_Service (1) and TAO_Event_Service (1) must be running in order to
run the Event Channel.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-n \ COS_Event_Service_Name
specify the name with which to register the Event Service
.TP
.BI \-r \ Real_Time_Event_Service_Name
specify the name with which to
.I look
for the RtEC
.TP
.BI \-s \ global | local
specify if the scheduler is
.I local
or
.I global

If the scheduler option is
.I global
then the naming service is to locate the scheduling service with the name
"ScheduleService."

If the scheduler is
.I local
then a new scheduling service is created and started.
.I local
is the default.
.TP
.B \-l
specify that a local Real Time Event Channel (RtEC).

If you specify this option but no RtEC is already running, then the 
TAO_CosEvent_Service starts its oewn RtEC.
.SH FILTERING OPTIONS
The following options are used to introduce a filtering mechanism for the Event
Channel based on event types and source IDs.
.TP
.BI \-e \ "EventType_1\ EventType_2\ ..."
specify the event types for the ConsumerQOS.  The ConsumerQOS is specified
when the RtEC is being set up.

The event types should be >= ACE_ES_EVENT_UNDEFINED = 16.  For example, \-e
"17 20 40" specifies that event types with IDs 17, 20 and 40 should be passed
to the consumers.
.TP
.BI \-o \ "EventSourceID_1\ EventSourceID_2\ ..."
specify the source IDs for the ConsumerQOS.
.TP
.BI \-p \ "sourceID\ EventTypeID"
specify a sourceID and event type pair for the Supplier QOS.
.SH BUGS
(blank for now)
.SH AUTHORS
.IP
Pradeep Gore <pradeep@cs.wustl.edu>
.IP
Ossama Othman <othman@cs.wustl.edu>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR TAO (7),
.BR TAO_Concurrency_Service (1),
.BR TAO_Event_Service (1),
.BR TAO_ImplRepo_Service (1),
.BR TAO_LifeCycle_Service (1),
.BR TAO_Logging_Service (1),
.BR TAO_Naming_Service (1),
.BR TAO_Scheduling_Service (1),
.BR TAO_Time_Service (1),
.BR TAO_Trading_Service (1)
