Copyright and Licensing Information for ACE and TAO

[1]ACE and [2]TAO are copyrighted by [3]Douglas C. Schmidt and his
[4]research group at [5]Washington University, Copyright (c)
1993-1999, all rights reserved. Since ACE and TAO are freely
available, [6]open source software, you are free to do anything you
like with the ACE and TAO source code and object code produced from
the source, as long as you include this copyright statement along with
code built using ACE and TAO.

In particular, you can use ACE and TAO in commercial software and are
under no obligation to redistribute any of your source code that is
built using ACE and TAO. Please note, however, that you may not do
anything to the ACE and TAO code, such as copyrighting it yourself or
claiming authorship of the ACE and TAO code, that will prevent it from
being distributed freely using an open source development model.

ACE and TAO are provided as is with no warranties of any kind,
including the warranties of design, merchantibility and fitness for a
particular purpose, noninfringement, or arising from a course of
dealing, usage or trade practice. Moreover, ACE and TAO are provided
with no support and without any obligation on the part of Washington
University, its employees, or students to assist in its use,
correction, modification, or enhancement. However, commercial support
for ACE and TAO are available from [7]Riverace and [8]OCI,
respectively.

Washington University, its employees, and students shall have no
liability with respect to the infringement of copyrights, trade
secrets or any patents by ACE and TAO or any part thereof. Moreover,
in no event will Washington University, its employees, or students be
liable for any lost revenue or profits or other special, indirect and
consequential damages.

The [1]ACE and [2]TAO web sites are maintained by the [9]Center for
Distributed Object Computing of Washington University for the
development of open source software as part of the [10]open source
software community. By submitting comments, suggestions, code, code
snippets, techniques (including that of usage), and algorithms,
submitters acknowledge that they have the right to do so, that any
such submissions are given freely and unreservedly, and that they
waive any claims to copyright or ownership. In addition, submitters
acknowledge that any such submission might become part of the
copyright maintained on the overall body of code, which comprises the
[11]ACE and [12]TAO software. By making a submission, submitter agree
to these terms. Furthermore, submitters acknowledge that the
incorporation or modification of such submissions is entirely at the
discretion of the moderators of the open source ACE and TAO projects
or their designees.

If you have any questions, please let [13]me know.

[14]Douglas C. Schmidt
_________________________________________________________________

Back to the [15]ACE home page.

References

   1. http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/ACE.html
   2. http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/TAO.html
   3. http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/
   4. http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/ACE-members.html
   5. http://www.wustl.edu/
   6. http://www.opensource.org/
   7. http://www.riverace.com/
   8. file://localhost/project/adaptive/.www-docs/www.ociweb.com
   9. http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/doc-center.html
  10. http://www.opensource.org/
  11. http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/ACE-obtain.html
  12. http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/TAO-obtain.html
  13. mailto:schmidt@cs.wustl.edu
  14. http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/
  15. file://localhost/project/adaptive/.www-docs/ACE.html
