MPC (Licensed Product) is protected by copyright, and is distributed under
the following terms.

MPC (Make, Project and workspace Creator) is an open source tool, developed
by OCI and written in Perl. It is designed to generate a variety of tool
specific project files from a common baseline. Through the powerful
combination of inheritance and defaults MPC is able to reduce the
maintenance burden normally associated with keeping multiple target
platforms, their unique build tools, and inconsistent feature sets current.
It is also easily extensible to support new build environments. The
objective is to solve the prevalent problem of fragile build environments,
usually experienced by developer groups, by replacing it with a singular
robust build environment, and an active community of users committed to its
evolution.

Since MPC is open source and free of licensing fees, you are free to use,
modify, and distribute the source code, as long as you include this
copyright statement.

In particular, you can use MPC to build proprietary software and are under
no obligation to redistribute any of your source code that is built using
MPC. Note, however, that you may not do anything to the MPC code, such as
copyrighting it yourself or claiming authorship of the MPC code, that will
prevent MPC from being distributed freely using an open source development
model.

Warranty

LICENSED PRODUCT IS PROVIDED AS IS WITH NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND INCLUDING
THE WARRANTIES OF DESIGN, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR ARISING FROM A COURSE OF DEALING, USAGE OR
TRADE PRACTICE.

Support

LICENSED PRODUCT IS PROVIDED WITH NO SUPPORT AND WITHOUT ANY OBLIGATION ON
THE PART OF OCI OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES OR AFFILIATES TO ASSIST IN ITS
USE, CORRECTION, MODIFICATION OR ENHANCEMENT.

Support may be available from OCI to users who have agreed to a support
contract.

Liability

OCI OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES OR AFFILIATES SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY WITH
RESPECT TO THE INFRINGEMENT OF COPYRIGHTS, TRADE SECRETS OR ANY PATENTS BY
LICENSED PRODUCT OR ANY PART THEREOF.

IN NO EVENT WILL OCI OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES OR AFFILIATES BE LIABLE FOR
ANY LOST REVENUE OR PROFITS OR OTHER SPECIAL, INDIRECT AND CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, EVEN IF OCI HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

MPC copyright OCI. St. Louis MO USA, 2003-2006
