Error/Debug messages
========================
ciao_debug_level () and associated environment are no longer used.
Instead, there are error message levels, in order from least to most
severe:

LM_TRACE
LM_DEBUG
LM_INFO
LM_NOTICE
LM_WARNING
LM_ERROR
LM_CRITICAL
LM_ALERT
LM_EMERGENCY

Please use the full range.  Severity LM_TRACE through LM_NOTICE should
use ACE_DEBUG.  LM_WARNING through LM_EMERGENCY should use ACE_ERROR.

The verbosity of the logging output, i.e. which severity of logging
messages are output, is configured at runtime from the command line of
any CIAO executable with --log-level.

Examples of usage:
LM_TRACE should be used for gratuitous tracing flow of execution
messages, and insignificant debug values.  Feel free to be as detailed
as possible here, the purpose is to make our lives easier when users
are having problems. LM_DEBUG should be used to report significant
debugging values and configuration parameters.  LM_INFO should be used
to report subactions (e.g. activiation of ports, establishment of
connections), and LM_NOTICE should be used to report significant
actions (e.g., component installation complete, container creation).

Debug messages should begin with "ClassName::MethodName - ".
There is a macro in CIAO_common.h called CLINFO.  This macro expands
to a set of default log message decorators, and should be prepended to
any and all debug messages and error messages, e.g.:

ACE_DEBUG((LM_INFO, CLINFO
           "Servant_Activator::etherialize - Your message here"));

It is VERY IMPORTANT to follow this format for EVERY MESSAGE to make
it easier to filter and make sense of logging output.

All methods (no exceptions!) must have a CIAO_TRACE statement at the
beginning.

Memory Allocation
=======================
All calls to allocate memory should use ACE_NEW_THROW_EX with
CORBA::NO_MEMORY, e.g.:

ACE_NEW_THROW_EX(pointer_var, constructor, CORBA::NO_MEMORY);

Locking
=======================
Use gards as much as possible, using the _THROW_EX versions of the
acquisition macros throwing CORBA::NO_RESOURCES.


