#!/bin/sh

VERSION=`cat VERSION`
URL="http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/ACE_wrappers/TAO.tar.gz"


cat <<@EOM

The first official beta release of The ACE ORB (TAO) has been released
by the Distributed Object Computing (DOC) Group at Washington
University in St. Louis.  TAO is a freely available CORBA
2.x-compliant ORB that can be downloaded from the Internet at

http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/ACE_wrappers/TAO.tar.gz

$VERSION

TAO uses IIOP 1.0 as its inter-ORB communication protocol and provides
the first implementation of the OMG's Portable Object Adapter (POA)
specification and latest IDL->C++ mappings.  For more information
about the POA, please see

TAO has been ported to a range of OS platforms including Windows NT
4.x using MSVC++ 4.x and 5.x, several versions of UNIX (e.g., Solaris
2.x, SGI IRIX 6.x, Linux, SCO, NetBSD, and FreeBSD), and Real-Time
OS's (RTOSs) (e.g., VxWorks and Chorus).  Ultimately, TAO will be
ported to all OS platforms on which ACE runs.  We have used TAO to
interwork with other ORBs (e.g., Orbix, COOL, CORBAPlus, and
VisiBroker), so we're confident that its IIOP implementation is robust
and interoperable.

For information on installation and system requirements, please see
http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/TAO-INSTALL.html (or INSTALL) in the
root directory of the unpacked tar file.

Note that ACE is required to build TAO.  Typically the most recent
beta release is required, which you can obtain at

http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/ACE.html

Please see the installation notes for more details.

Other HTML documentation is available in the '$TAO_ROOT/docs/'
directory.

We welcome suggestions for improvement, bug fixes, portability
enhancements, etc.  If you have any problems with TAO, please send
email to Douglas C. Schmidt (schmidt@cs.wustl.edu) and Chris Cleeland
(cleeland@cs.wustl.edu).

The TAO Team
@EOM
