$Id$
______________________________________________________________________________

These examples have been taken from the book "Advanced CORBA
Programming with C++" by Michi Henning and Steve Vinoski. Copyright
1999. Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA.  To make the examples work with
TAO, some minor modifications to the source code have been made, with
permission from Addision-Wesley, by Mike Moran <mm4@cs.wustl.edu>.
We've also integrated the examples into the ACE+TAO Makefile scheme.
Each directory contains a file CHANGES which describes all
modifications, as well as a README file documenting its use.

The original source distribution can be found at the Addison-Wesley 
homepage:

http://cseng.aw.com/bookdetail.qry?ISBN=0-201-37927-9&ptype=0

The following is the README distibuted with the original code:
______________________________________________________________________________


Each directory contains one of the major code examples of the corresponding
chapter.

We have not provided Makefiles and a build environment simply because
there are not enough ORBs with a POA around yet to make this feasible.

You will almost certainly hit minor glitches with include file names.

Another potential problem is the version of the iostream library
supported by your compiler. The code here uses the old iostream
library. If your compiler requires use of the new ISO/IEC library, you
will have to replace occurences of "#include <iostream.h>" with
"#include <iostream>" and use the std:: qualifier for I/O
operations. (The easiest way to deal with this is probably to add a
"using namespace ::std" directive to the code somewhere. (Similar
comments apply to uses of the fstream and strstream classes.)

It is also likely that you will encounter some compiler
incompatibilities.  If you do and update the source to work for your
compiler, please drop us a note at corba@awl.com. Over time, we hope
that with your help, we can turn the code into something that will
work everywhere.

If you find bugs, we'd appreciate it if you'd let us know.

                            Thanks,

                                Michi & Steve.
