OMG INTERFACE DEFINITION LANGUAGE COMPILER FRONT END: KNOWN PROBLEMS
-==================================================================-

INTRODUCTION

This file describes what configurations are known to work correctly with
this release, and what are the known problems with this release as shipped.
Comments about future possible enhancements do not imply a commitment on
the part of Sun or any of its subsidiaries to produce these enhancements.

TESTED CONFIGURATIONS

This release has been tested and is known to operate correctly on:

- Sparcstation 2 running SunOS 4.1.2, when compiled with SparcWorks 3.0
- Sparcstation 10 running Solaris 2.3, when compiled with SparcWorks 3.0.1
- Sparcstation 10 running Solaris 2.3, when compiled with SparcWorks 4.0

We are aware of a bug in GNU C++ (the latest version we tested was 2.5)
which causes up-casting (changing the type of an instance from a base class
to a more derived class, also known as "narrowing") to fail or cause a
program crash.

PROBLEMS:

This is a list of known problems with the current version of the CFE:

- The following syntax, although legal, is not accepted by the CFE:

  .. sequence <string <10>> ..

  This causes a parse error. The cause of this problem is that the '>>' is
  read as a right shif operater and not as two '>'s. You can avoid this
  problem by instead writing

  .. sequence <string <10> > ..

- The following syntax, although legal, is not accepted by the CFE:

  const string foo = "abc" " and" " another" " string";

  Instead, write:

  const string foo = "abc and another string";

- The printout produced by the -d option for dumping the AST is not always
  perfect. Specifically, dumping of sequences and arrays is deficient.

POSSIBLE FUTURE ENHANCEMENTS:

This is a list of areas in which the code of the CFE may change in future
releases:

- The current release is restricted in its use of C++ because it must
  be possible to compile it using C++ 2.1. However, we have also provided
  files that depend on features which are only present in C++ 3.0, such as
  templates. If your compiler supports templates and you wish to use them,
  copy the files in include/utl_tmpl to include, and copy the files in
  util/utl_tmpl to util. You will also need to make compiler dependent
  modifications to Makefiles throughout the CFE directory hierarchy to
  enable the use of templates.

  The code using templates was donated by Steve Vinoski of HP.

  In a future release of the CFE only the template code may be included,
  and hence users will need to use a C++ 3.0 or higher compiler.

- The UTL_list classes defined in the util directory are rudimentary. More
  features may be added to make the functionality richer.

- The UTL_String class may be rewritten or replaced by a standard ANSI C++
  String implementation. Applications will be shielded from this change.

COPYRIGHT:

Copyright 1992, 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  Printed in the United
States of America.  All Rights Reserved.

This product is protected by copyright and distributed under the following
license restricting its use.

The Interface Definition Language Compiler Front End (CFE) is made
available for your use provided that you include this license and copyright
notice on all media and documentation and the software program in which
this product is incorporated in whole or part. You may copy and extend
functionality (but may not remove functionality) of the Interface
Definition Language CFE without charge, but you are not authorized to
license or distribute it to anyone else except as part of a product or
program developed by you or with the express written consent of Sun
Microsystems, Inc. ("Sun").

The names of Sun Microsystems, Inc. and any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates may not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of Interface Definition Language CFE as permitted herein.

This license is effective until terminated by Sun for failure to comply
with this license.  Upon termination, you shall destroy or return all code
and documentation for the Interface Definition Language CFE.

INTERFACE DEFINITION LANGUAGE CFE IS PROVIDED AS IS WITH NO WARRANTIES OF
ANY KIND INCLUDING THE WARRANTIES OF DESIGN, MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR ARISING FROM A COURSE OF
DEALING, USAGE OR TRADE PRACTICE.

INTERFACE DEFINITION LANGUAGE CFE IS PROVIDED WITH NO SUPPORT AND WITHOUT
ANY OBLIGATION ON THE PART OF Sun OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES OR AFFILIATES
TO ASSIST IN ITS USE, CORRECTION, MODIFICATION OR ENHANCEMENT.

SUN OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES OR AFFILIATES SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY WITH
RESPECT TO THE INFRINGEMENT OF COPYRIGHTS, TRADE SECRETS OR ANY PATENTS BY
INTERFACE DEFINITION LANGUAGE CFE OR ANY PART THEREOF.

IN NO EVENT WILL SUN OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES OR AFFILIATES BE LIABLE FOR
ANY LOST REVENUE OR PROFITS OR OTHER SPECIAL, INDIRECT AND CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, EVEN IF SUN HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

Use, duplication, or disclosure by the government is subject to
restrictions as set forth in subparagraph (c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in
Technical Data and Computer Software clause at DFARS 252.227-7013 and FAR
52.227-19.

Sun, Sun Microsystems and the Sun logo are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc.

SunSoft, Inc.  
2550 Garcia Avenue 
Mountain View, California  94043

NOTE:

SunOS, SunSoft, Sun, Solaris, Sun Microsystems or the Sun logo are
trademarks or registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc.
